All right, so in the last lesson, we had a nice marathon there to get our couple of tests working
and get some ABC code written that would allow us to connect to the database and we got that all working.
So in this lesson, I want to just go through a little bit of what we did there, make some clarifications
where needed and clean up a few things as well.
So we're going to start back in the unit test here.
And the first thing I think I want to address is what we're doing with this connection here.
So.
What we're essentially doing first off, we're using a J Unit annotation the before each annotation
in order to set up or create that connection.
So what this means is that we're actually establishing a new database connection for each individual
test here.
OK, now for what we're doing at this time, that's fine.
It could be seen as being a little wasteful, though, because we are actually creating a new connection
for each and every test.
It really depends on the nature of how you're wanting to test, though if you want your database related
tests to be a nice, clean slate for each and every test.
This might be a good way to go where you're setting up a new connection before each test.
Now one thing I think we should be doing, though, and I think we're going to go out and do this now,
is that at the end of each of these tests, it is implied essentially that this connection goes away,
OK, because it's happening for each individual test.
But we can make that more explicit and I think we should and by go away, I mean, close the connection.
OK.
So that way, we can just ensure that there's no database connection leaks or weird things going on
of that sort.
And so if we want to just ensure that we're really closing down these connections at the end of each
test, we can do a teardown method.
OK.
So if I just put my cursor here, make a new line to a command in or right click on blank space for
Windows users and choose Generate.
Then we can choose teardown methods, so that'll generate a tear down method for us.
OK.
So this is the complement to the setup method.
OK?
Or the annotation before each and after each.
And then here we can essentially just refer to our connection and then call close.
Now, calling that close method itself actually can generate an exception as well.
So we'll want to do something about that.
And again, I'm generally OK for now to just add the exception to the signature here.
Now, please, please, please make sure you're understanding that I'm OK for now, with adding the
exception to the signature of our test methods test methods.
We want to be a lot more mindful of what we're doing with the exceptions in our implementation code,
write the code of the system under test.
The thing that we are testing, right?
This is the test code.
The repository class would be the the system under test, which is the class that we are testing, right?
So I'm OK here with us adding the exception to the signature here, because that's just going to cause
those methods.
These test methods to fail, and that's always an OK thing, right?
To let a test method fail.
You'd rather that it hit you in the face and that you see case something's not working correctly.
Now we could be a little bit safer here, perhaps, and do something like if connection is not null,
then do all of that.
You know, we could do something along those lines because if for some reason the setup itself failed,
then the connection should be null.
And in that case, there's nothing to close, right?
Now let me also be a little more explicit about the nature of the setup in the teardown.
So what ends up happening with J Unit with these before each and after each annotated methods here is
that right before J Unit runs each of these tests, it's going to run the set up to do whatever.
And it's going to do that for the set up.
Not because it's called setup, but because there's a B for each annotated method here.
OK.
So it's going to run all of the methods that are annotated with before each, right before it runs any
individual test method.
And then when that test method is done, it's going to call all of the methods that are annotated with
at after each.
OK.
So that's the normal happy path implementation of day unit.
However, there are some neat little things worth noting here.
If an exception happens to be thrown within a test method, the after each methods here, the teardown
in this case still gets to run.
OK, which is great because we will have open the connection successfully.
But then let's say something went wrong down here.
We want to make sure absolutely certain that that connection still gets closed, OK?
So even if this blows up with an exception, the teardown method will still will still get called by
J Unit.
Also, even if something goes wrong in the setup method, tear down, we'll also still get called.
OK, so this is actually very similar to a try catch block looks.
If we had a try, I'm just going to put it kind of like here on one line.
Try.
Open connection.
Right.
Catch.
Exception, whatever it is.
Handle exception, and then you could have a finally right, remember that the final block will always
run no matter what cleanup or recovery or whatever.
So.
This after each annotated method here, the tear down method and the things that it does here are actually
quite equivalent to a final block, and to be honest with you, for all I know the way that J unit is
actually implemented, it may actually be calling these after each annotated methods inside of a final
block.
There's a real strong likelihood that that's probably exactly what it's doing.
So this is our chance to recover or clean up from whatever mess may have happened prior to this method
getting called.
So that's probably a good thing that we'd want to have if we're opening database connections directly
within a test like we're doing here.
All right, let me get rid of that, OK?
Another thing that I want to point out is that I actually kind of forgot to double check this now.
So here in our tests, we're creating people with birthdates, right?
And they've there and like this guy here is born at 3:15 p.m., right at GMT minus six.
No, but we're now trying to make sure that we're normalizing all of the dates and times in the database
to be relative to GMT zero.
So I forgot for us to actually pay attention in the database, though, to confirm that that's actually
what the dates and times are, right?
So 3:15 p.m. GMT minus six should be 9:15 p.m. GMT zero right 9:15, which I think would be 20 100 hours
or 21 hours.
Right.
So let's just double check that real quick.
So we're going to jump into the Squirrel SQL client.
All right.
And here's our data.
And we've got all these rows here with the with the null salaries, and these are all the rows that
got inserted as a result of our tests.
So if we just pay attention here, yet we've got 21, 15, 21, 15.
So that so that time generally looks correct.
Let's see now, let's check on Bob, I can't remember what we set for Bobby.
Bobby.
OK, so Bobby was actually one 13, however, he was one 13 at GMT minus eight.
So one 13 p.m. at GMT minus eight would still be nine 13 p.m. ET GMT, minus zero.
Right.
Which would be 20 100 hours and jumping back into the database for the.
Yeah, there we are, 21, 13, so OK, so great, so our time warping is working correctly, right?
All of these well, all of these dates for the where the salary is zero, all of these dates are indeed
being converted and stored in GMT minus zero, regardless of what time zone they were set in Java code.
OK, so that that time warping code that we put in the repository is working.
All right.
So very good.
OK.
So while we're here.
There's another thing I wanted to point out as well.
So we're dirtying up our database every time we run our tests.
To me, that's not necessarily the most desirable way for these tests to run there.
There may very well be some occasions when you explicitly want to see the data in the database and in
fact, actually even right now, I mean, as we've been just dipping our toes in the pool and wanting
to really confirm, Hey, is our code really, truly putting the right data out into the database?
Nothing beats just opening up a database client like this one and seeing those records in the database.
However, now that we have confirmed that we generally are able to write data to the database, perhaps
we don't want to keep dirtying up our database permanently with all these duplicated records, as we
are doing now.
So there's actually a great technique that we can use if we want to use the database temporarily while
the tests are working, but then have the tests essentially clean up after themselves when they're all
done so that we're not permanently impacting the database?
And this is, you know, you can choose whether or not you want this capability or not, but I want
to show you how to do this.
OK, so jumping back into the test code here, what we can do is we can actually modify the connection
here.
So currently, every time we connect to the database and we interact with it, and particularly we update
or insert records in to the database, our sequel commands or statements are getting committed to the
database and that's happening for us automatically.
We're not having to explicitly do anything.
In fact, let me show you here.
So if we jump into the save code here, so right here we're calling Execute Update and you can think
of that as like making our inserts occur, right?
Like executing them, right?
Well, those insert statements are actually being what we can call auto committed to the database,
but we can actually turn off the auto commits.
And so if we insert data or update the database in any way at all.
But we don't commit the changes and then we close the database connection.
All of the changes that we did to the database will just go away.
OK.
They won't be committed.
They won't be permanently recorded.
They will look as if they all worked for as long as we have a connection to the database.
But once the database connection is gone, so will be those changes that we made.
So that can give us a cool technique for cleaning up after our tests.
If we can just turn off the auto commits that J.D. is doing by default.
So what we can do for that is to jump back into our test.
And right up here where we're actually opening this connection, we can just make a new line here and
then we can refer to the connection.
And we can actually set auto commit, which call the set out to commit method here, which takes a Boolean.
And can you guess what we need to set for this value?
We can just set it to false.
So that will turn off the auto commit.
And so now we could run these tests five billion times, but we won't have five billion or whatever
the number would be.
Additional records showing up in the database.
OK.
So if we jump back over to the SQL client and make a note that currently we've got here, let's just
do a quick count.
Count select count star from people, so that's how we can count how many records we've currently got
in there.
So you currently have 13 records in the database.
So now I'm going to close the connection.
And no, I don't want to save and then we'll jump back over here and then we'll just run all the tests
again.
OK.
And in fact, let's just run the tests several times.
To.
Three.
For.
Five.
Six times.
OK, cool, so we've run the test six times now we'll jump back over to the SQL client and will reopen
our connection.
And then let's see.
And then we'll recall that select count star from people, and we'll run that again.
And we still only have 13 records.
OK, so we didn't add any additional records to the database permanently.
They did make their way in here, but they all got wiped out at the end of each of those tests.
And so that's a really nice technique, and that's the default way that I usually like to test against
a database.
I like to put my own test data in while the test is running.
And then I want to clean up after myself after the test is done.
OK, jumping back to the I.D. OK.
Another thing that I wanted to do was to confirm what IDs are actually being generated.
And one easy way that we can do that is right here in the saved method.
So if we jump into the save method here, so we're setting the I.D. on the person right person that
set I.D. and then we're returning that person.
So one thing we could do is simply print that person, maybe like right after we set the I.D. so we
can do something like just the system that out and then just pass in the person.
Now we want to make sure that we have a two string method generated on the person class.
So let's jump into person.
And I don't remember.
Yeah, we we don't have one currently, so we can generate one really easily at the bottom here.
Again, I will do a command in Windows users, right click on some black space and then choose Generate,
and then I can choose the two string.
There we go.
And then it asked me what fields I want to include.
And I will include all of them.
Which is already selected and click, OK.
All right, so there we go.
And now if we jump back in to the tests.
And closed down the database connection and rerun these tests.
OK, let's we run the tests.
So now if I click on any one of these tests.
There we go.
So now we can see the IDs are actually being generated person ID 42, that number could only have come
from the database and 43 and then we'll click on this one person test and 44.
Now note, even though we're not committing the inserts of these people records, the IDs are going
to keep incrementing.
That's just how H-2 database is working.
It's still keeping track of the last integers that it generated for each record.
And even though we're not permanently committing those records, it continues to increment those IDs.
OK, so just something to make note of.
Not a big deal, but that's how H-2 and probably a lot of other databases would would happen to work.
OK, so now that we've got these two methods working, I would like to clean up a little tiny bit of
the code duplication.
Also, since the whole point of this test, which is called people repository tests, is to test the
functionality of our people repository class.
That implies that probably every single test method we have in this class is going to need an instance
of the people repository class, right?
And if that's the case, then we probably don't need to be creating it explicitly in each and every
test method, right?
So we can factor that out, maybe as a field of the test class itself.
OK, so we can just put our cursor on repo here and do an option command f four field.
And then it's asking us, as usual, where do we want to set up or initialize this repo?
And currently it's set to do that in the set up, which I think is appropriate because that's also where
we're creating the connection and the connection is needed for the repository.
So that sounds good to me.
I'm going to go ahead and just hit return.
All right.
OK.
And so now that repo has disappeared.
Take note, though, that it did not disappear from down here.
OK, so we will need to clean that up.
In fact, let's just go and do it now.
So I'm just putting my cursor on line 44, and then I'm just going to delete that line with a command
delete or control y for Windows and Linux.
All right.
So what happened now is we got a new field, an additional field of type people repository, which we
are calling repo.
But then down here in the setup method is where we're actually initializing it to a new people repository.
And there's our connection that came right from above.
Right.
Just like so and so now this repo that we are referring to both here and here and here are the field
repo of the class.
OK?
And that just means that we're only creating one instance of it per test method, and it's happening
automatically up here for us.
All right.
So now let's jump into the save method and see what other kinds of things we can do in here.
OK, so a couple of things.
So first thing I see is I think we can do something a little better with this sequel here.
Typically, when you have a class that has SQL inside of it, we may prefer to define that SQL code
as a string constant on the class.
Right now, it's just stored in a local variable here, a local string that's local to the save method.
But it's more typical, I'd say, to extract that into a constant.
OK, just so that it's like kind of really in your face within the class itself.
And so we can convert this into a constant really easily.
I'm just going to select the sequel here and then do an option Command C for constant.
OK, like that.
And then I can name this something.
And typically, you might want to call it something that's based on what it's doing.
So it's saving a person or inserting a person, whatever you want to do.
So and because it's a constant, it should be all uppercase, by the way.
So I don't know if we can call it save underscore person now.
You don't use camel case because it's all uppercase, so you'll use an underscore and save person.
And then you may frequently also see something like underscore scale, you know, something something
along those lines.
Well, I also could have named it insert person that that probably would have been fine, too.
All right.
And return.
So now we've got this public static final constant called Safe Person sequel, and there's our sequel
there and there's the variable right there.
So like I said, that's a pretty common pattern that you'll see any time their sequel embedded within
a class.
OK.
And then let's just do a quick run through here as a reminder of.
All of what has to happen for this type of code to work.
So we need a connection which we happen to be creating in the test.
Now I could have chosen to create this connection in this class, like I could have done it right here
in the constructor, in fact.
Right.
The the the driver manager talked connection and all of that.
We could have done it anywhere in this class.
We could have done it in this test method.
We could have done it here in the constructor.
I chose not to do it here, though, because I knew that I was going to want to have a little bit more
flexibility with being able to turn on or off the auto commit behavior and controlling the auto commit
behavior has everything to do with running the tests.
But keep in mind, in real life, this people repository class would not just be getting called from
a test.
It would be getting called from your real code right from a real working application.
And so you certainly wouldn't want to set the connections.
Auto commit property to false under normal real world circumstances where you're running the application
for real and not via a test.
So you wouldn't want that code to be here where you're setting that out or commit to false.
Right now, you could write some conditional code that would check some kind of a property or something
to know whether or not it should auto commit or not.
But the easier thing to do in a lot of ways is to just not even create the connection within this repository
and instead created somewhere else.
OK.
And that way, it makes it easy to do all kinds of different testing.
We might want to write tests that don't even actually make a real connection to a real database.
Or we might want this people repository to be very flexible in terms of what database it actually can
connect to.
Right now, it happens to be connecting to H2, but we might want it in the future to be able to connect
to an Oracle database or something else.
So it's kind of nice to allow this class to not have to care about quite that level of details.
OK.
We can kind of push those details somewhere else.
Now also, this people repository class has what's called a dependency on the connection.
OK.
And by us being able to pass our connection dependency in to the people repository, we are making use
of another very, very popular design pattern, which is called dependency injection.
So instead of our class, that depends on the connection existing creating its own connection, we inject
a connection into the class as we are doing here and we happen to be doing it right now via the constructor.
We could also have created a setter method on this class and pushed it into the center.
I chose not to do that because using the constructor in this case was just much more straightforward,
number one.
And secondly, it's conceptually invalid to even have a people repository instance without a connection.
And so in terms of coding, the best way to codify the fact that you can't have a people repository
without a connection is to simply make the people repositories constructor accept a connection.
I'm basically saying you can't create a PayPal repository without passing any connection.
OK.
Whereas if I had allowed the people repository class to be created with a no ARG constructor and then
I had an additional setter method for the connection that would imply that maybe it's OK to create a
people repository without a connection.
But what would happen if you did that and then you tried to call save?
This code would blow up immediately right here, right?
So this is semantically speaking a better pattern.
So after we have our connection established, we can then create some type of a statement to allow us
to execute some sequel.
And there are two primary types of statements that we can create.
We can create a prepared statement, or we can just create a statement.
OK?
There's another method on the connection class that we saw and that was create statement.
Right, right there, create statement.
OK, now I told you that we were going to use the prepared statement, and I want to tell you a little
bit more about the prepared statement now.
Now we chose to use the prepared statement primarily for two big reasons, and I only touched on one
in the previous lesson.
The first reason is because we have these parameters here that need to be bound to fields in the person
class, OK?
And the prepared statement gives us a really straightforward way of binding these values.
OK, now we could have done this without using a prepared statement by using just a regular statement.
But if we had used a regular statement, then we would have had to use some string concatenation tricks
to get these values in here.
In other words, we would have had to hard code these values into the values area of our insert statement
and lots of database code in Java has been written in that way.
But I'm going to tell you right now if you've got parameters that you need to pass in using a statement,
a regular statement and using string concatenation is like the worst possible way to get those parameters
in there.
And the reason for this has to do with a major security flaw that exists in lots of code not only just
Java, it's called SQL injection.
Now I'm not going to go super deep right now into all of the details of SQL injection, but the basic
just is this if we had used string concatenation, it might have been possible.
Let's imagine that this code here is part of a web application where there's a web page and the web
page asks people to enter their first name, last name, date of birth.
OK.
And let's say that there is a malicious and intelligent hacker who wants to hack into our application
and still all of our data.
One thing that they might try to do is to utilize this SQL injection technique, and the way they would
do that is that they would try to guess that maybe the developer who wrote the code for this web application
wasn't very knowledgeable, and maybe they used an insert statement kind of like this, and they used
string concatenation to set the first name, last name and date of birth.
Fields here, if they had done that, then what?
What that hacker could do is they could set.
I'm going to use some pseudocode here.
Let me do it right here.
So what they could do is instead of just typing Frank just like that for their first name in the first
name field of a web page, instead of doing that, they might do something like add a single tick here
and then a comma and then Jackson or, you know, a last name, comma and then a date of birth.
1950, blah blah, blah, blah, blah blah, and then now, no, no, now.
Mind you, they're typing all of that.
All of this just in the first named field of a web page.
OK.
And then what they might do is put a closing parentheses here and maybe even a semicolon.
And then they could do something like select star from.
And then maybe they just guess that the name of our table is called people.
Like that.
So what would end up happening is.
All of that would then just get upended into some field here.
Right.
And since we're not using question marks anymore, right?
These would just be appended via a strengthened cat nation.
Maybe they do it on the last name field or on the date of birth field so that it all kind of just matches
up kind of nicely.
OK, somehow.
So the basic idea is that they can kind of hijack our sequel so that they can get this extra code right
here to execute somehow.
And depending on how badly we wrote our database code, our database code might have allowed this to
execute and for the output of this to make its way back to the web browser.
Now, in our case, we don't have a web browser, we're not writing a web application and all of that.
But that's the gist of how SQL injection works, OK?
But by using a prepared statement, this is not possible because with a prepared statement, every parameter
that we're expecting to read in is constrained to just it's one little bit of data.
So in other words, this name Frank here is the only value that can actually be allowed in here, and
all the rest of this stuff would just cause an exception to be thrown.
OK.
And so the rule to live by when when you're writing JTBC code is if you've got parameters that you need
to bind to outside data and by outside data.
I mean, in this case, our person class use a prepared statement.
OK, always use a prepared statement.
And that will save you from this particular level of SQL injection.
All right.
So that was this a quick reminder between using the prepared statement versus just they create statement
they both led us eventually executed some SQL, but one is really good if you need to bind parameters.
If you're not binding any parameters, like if you just had a select star from people and that was all
you were doing and that passing in any parameters.
Maybe in that case, the create statement might be sufficient, but as soon as you've got some parameters
to pass in use, a prepared statement and actually there's a third advantage of prepared statements
as well that I almost forgot.
And that is the fact that prepared statements can be prepared, meaning that the sequel code for a prepared
statement actually gets an opportunity to be analyzed and optimized by the database before it actually
gets executed, which means that prepared statements actually can execute more efficiently than regular
statements.
So there's another reason to really just stick with prepared statements most of the time.
OK, now there's other ways to execute code on a database, by the way, besides statements and prepared
statements.
You can also have things like stored procedures, which are kind of like functions or methods that live
and execute on the database itself.
I don't think we'll be getting into any of that here, though.
But yeah, prepared statements are your friend.
All right.
So we called this prepared statement passed in our school and then because we knew that we wanted to
be able to capture any IDs or keys that were generated.
We also told our connection that we wanted it to return any generated keys, so we needed to do that
here.
OK.
So then after that, we bound all of our three parameters to the school's statement up here.
And to do so, we had to specify what the data type was.
So this is really just allowing us to translate our Java data types into SQL data type.
So the search string becomes of our car, the set timestamp becomes a timestamp essentially right.
And there are several other data types that we can bind to for Boolean and things of that sort, and
we'll probably play around with a few more of those in future lessons.
All right.
So here we're binding all of our parameters and then we actually just execute right here, and there
are a few different flavors of the execute method.
So if you're making updates to the database, you can call execute update, and that will actually return
an integer which lets you know how many records were affected, which is why we're capturing that right
here.
So this method specifically can be utilized if the SQL that you're executing is doing an insert, an
update or delete.
OK.
So if you're just doing a select, you would not use execute update for select because you're not updating
anything in the database.
In that circumstance, you're just reading out of the database.
And and we'll we'll be doing some selects in future lessons, so we'll get a chance to play around with
some of the other forms of execute.
All right.
So we execute and we can find out if the one record that should have been inserted got inserted because
we'll get back, presumably a one and then we can call that get generated keys, which returns something
called a result set.
So you can think of the results set either as an ArrayList or as just a two dimensional array.
In fact, maybe it's better to even think of it explicitly as a two dimensional array, and it behaves
very similarly to an iterator in that you have to call a dot next method on it to iterate over the rows
that exist within it.
So if you think of it as a two dimensional array, that's basically a spreadsheet, right?
And so each row would be one person, so you can think of it as having rows and columns.
OK.
Each time we call our escort next, we're just going to the next row.
So when we call that get generated keys, the way you can think of it is a spreadsheet with, in this
case, one row and one column, and that one row in one column is going to contain the I.D. that got
generated for the row that we just inserted into the database.
OK.
And so we're calling our next, which takes us to that first row.
If there was a row and then we can call R-Sport, get long from column one and there's only one column
in this particular result, and we're just calling long because these are IDs and IDs can be pretty
large numbers, so it's appropriate to use something like along in this case.
And then we capture that long and then set it on our idea of the person.
So the main thing to remember here is that we're getting results set and you should just think of a
results set as a two dimensional array and you should think of a two dimensional array as a spreadsheet,
right?
We've got rows and columns.
OK.
OK, so that's going to wrap it up for this lesson.
And in the next lesson, we'll jump in to some more use cases because we've got basically all of the
create read update delete type methods.
The crud methods can all be implemented now in Java code, and so we're going to just run through them
all.
All right.
See you in the next one.